DEVREL-372: Adds a how-to guide for PG Secrets via AWS Secrets Manager (#4233)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/understanding-kong/how-to/aws-secrets-manager.md

---

> title: "Securing Kong Gateway database credentials with AWS Secrets Manager"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Securing Kong Gateway database credentials with AWS Secrets Manager"
content_type: how-to
```

> description: "How-to keep your {{site.base_gateway}} database credentials secure using AWS SecretsManager and Kong vault integrations."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "How to keep your {{site.base_gateway}} database credentials secure using AWS Secrets Manager and vault integrations."
```

---

Application secrets include sensitive data like passwords, keys, certifications, tokens, and other items
which must be secured. [{{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/) supports
[Secrets Management](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/) 
that allows you to store secrets in various secure backend systems helping you protect them from accidental
exposure.

Traditionally, {{site.base_gateway}} is configured with static credentials for connecting 
to its external database. This guide will show you how to configure {{site.base_gateway}} to use 
[AWS Secrets Manager](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/auth-and-access.html) to 
read database credentials securely instead the conventional file or environment variable based solutions.

> For this guide you are going to run the PostgreSQL and {{site.base_gateway}} locally on Docker. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this guide, you will run the PostgreSQL and {{site.base_gateway}} locally on Docker. 
```

You will create a secret in the AWS Secrets Manager and deploy {{site.base_gateway}} using a vault reference
to read the value securely.

### Prerequisites

> * It is assumed you have access to an [AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com/) and have the 
>   [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html) 
>   installed and configured.
>   
>   Your AWS account or assumed role must have proper IAM permissions to allow 
>   access to the AWS Secrets Manager service. Permission policy examples can be found in the 
>   [AWS Secrets Manager documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/auth-and-access_examples.html).
>   In order to create a new secret with the AWS CLI, you will need the following permissions:
>   * `secretsmanager:CreateSecret`
>   * `secretsmanager:PutSecretValue`
> 
>   Additionally, {{site.base_gateway}} will connect to Secrets Manager and retrieve the secret value, 
>   this requires the `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue` permission.
> 
>   You must be able to configure the gateway environment with the well known 
>   [AWS CLI environment variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html)
>   as this is the method {{site.base_gateway}} uses to connect to the Secrets Manager service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An [AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com/). Your account must have the proper IAM permissions to allow access to the AWS Secrets Manager service. Permission policy examples can be found in the [AWS Secrets Manager documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/auth-and-access_examples.html). Additionally, you must have the following permissions:
  * `secretsmanager:CreateSecret`
  * `secretsmanager:PutSecretValue`
  * `secretsmanager:GetSecretValue`
* The [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html) installed and configured. You must be able to configure the gateway environment with [AWS CLI environment variables](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html) because this is the method that {{site.base_gateway}} uses to connect to the Secrets Manager service.
```

> * [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) will be used to run {{site.base_gateway}} and the supporting database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) installed.
```

* [`curl`](https://curl.se/) is required on your system to send 
requests to the gateway for testing. Most systems come with `curl` pre-installed.

> ### Steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure {{site.base_gateway}} to use AWS Secrets Manager
```

> Create a Docker network for {{site.base_gateway}} and the database to communicate over:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Docker network for {{site.base_gateway}} and the database to communicate over:
```

```sh
docker network create kong-net
```

> Configure and run the database: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Configure and run the database: 
```

```sh
docker run -d --name kong-database \
  --network=kong-net \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -e "POSTGRES_USER=admin" \
  -e "POSTGRES_PASSWORD=password" \
  postgres:9.6
```

The username and password used above are the PostgreSQL master credentials, *not* the 
username and password you will use to authorize {{site.base_gateway}} with the database.

{:.note}

> > **Note:** A production deployment could use [AWS RDS for PostgreSQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/postgresql/) 
> which supports direct integration with AWS Secrets Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** A production deployment can use [AWS RDS for PostgreSQL](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/postgresql/) 
which supports direct integration with AWS Secrets Manager.
```

> Create a username and password for {{site.base_gateway}}'s database, and store 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a username and password for {{site.base_gateway}}'s database and store 
```

them in environment variables to use in this guide:

```sh
KONG_PG_USER=kong
KONG_PG_PASSWORD=KongFTW
```

> Create the {{site.base_gateway}} database user inside the PostgreSQL server container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the {{site.base_gateway}} database user inside the PostgreSQL server container:
```

```sh
docker exec -it kong-database psql -U admin -c \
  "CREATE USER ${KONG_PG_USER} WITH PASSWORD '${KONG_PG_PASSWORD}'"
```

You should see:
```sh
CREATE ROLE
```

> Create a database named `kong` inside the PostgreSQL container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a database named `kong` inside the PostgreSQL container:
```

```sh
docker exec -it kong-database psql -U admin -c "CREATE DATABASE kong OWNER ${KONG_PG_USER};"
```

You should see:
```sh
CREATE DATABASE
```

> Create a new AWS secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new AWS secret:
```

```sh
aws secretsmanager create-secret --name kong-gateway-database \
  --description "Kong GW Database credentials"
```

> Update the secret value with the username and password from the variables assigned above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the secret value with the username and password from the variables assigned above.
```

If you want to update the secret values later, this is the command you would use:

```sh
aws secretsmanager put-secret-value --secret-id kong-gateway-database \
  --secret-string '{"pg_user":"'${KONG_PG_USER}'","pg_password":"'${KONG_PG_PASSWORD}'"}'
```

> Before launching {{site.base_gateway}}, run the following command to perform the database migrations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Before launching {{site.base_gateway}}, run the following command to perform the database migrations:
```

{:.note}

> > **Note:** As of the time of publication, the `kong migrations` tool does not support Secrets Management, so this
> step must be done with traditional {{site.base_gateway}} configuration options. In this example, 
> we are passing the secrets to Docker via the environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Currently, the `kong migrations` tool does not support Secrets Management, so this
step must be done with traditional {{site.base_gateway}} configuration options. In this example, 
we are passing the secrets to Docker via the environment.
```

```sh
docker run --rm \
  --network=kong-net \
  -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" \
  -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-database" \
  -e "KONG_PG_USER=$KONG_PG_USER" \
  -e "KONG_PG_PASSWORD=$KONG_PG_PASSWORD" \
  kong/kong-gateway:latest kong migrations bootstrap
```

> Now you'll launch {{site.base_gateway}} configured to use referenceable values for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Launch {{site.base_gateway}} configured to use values it can reference for the
```

> database username and password. In order to authorize {{site.base_gateway}} to connect to AWS Secrets Manager,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database username and password. To authorize {{site.base_gateway}} to connect to AWS Secrets Manager,
```

you need to provide IAM security credentials via environment variables. 

You specify the database credentials using the standard `KONG_` 
[environment variable names](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/reference/configuration/#environment-variables), 
but instead of providing a static value you use a 

> [referenceable value](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/reference-format/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[reference value](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/reference-format/).
```

The format looks like this: `{vault://aws/kong-gateway-database/pg_user}`. In this example, 
the reference format contains `aws` as the backend vault type, `kong-gateway-database` matches 
the name of the secret created earlier, and `pg_user` is the JSON field name you want to reference 

> within the secret value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the secret value.
```

> See the full 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the
```

[AWS Secrets Manager documentation](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/backends/aws-sm/) 
for more details.

Assuming you have set `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, and `AWS_REGION` in the current 

> environment, start {{site.base_gateway}} as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
environment, start {{site.base_gateway}} like this:
```

```sh
docker run --rm \
  --network=kong-net \
  -e "KONG_DATABASE=postgres" \
  -e "KONG_PG_HOST=kong-database" \
  -e "AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID" \
  -e "AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY" \
  -e "AWS_REGION" \
  -e "KONG_PG_USER={vault://aws/kong-gateway-database/pg_user}" \
  -e "KONG_PG_PASSWORD={vault://aws/kong-gateway-database/pg_password}" \
  kong/kong-gateway:{{page.kong_version}}
```

> After a moment, the gateway should be running and you can verify with the Admin API here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a moment, {{site.base_gateway}} should be running, which you can verify with the Admin API:
```

```sh
curl -s localhost:8001
```

You should receive a JSON response with various information from {{site.base_gateway}}.

The [documentation on {{site.base_gateway}}'s support for Secrets Management](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/plan-and-deploy/security/secrets-management/)

> contains more information on available backends and configuration details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains more information about available backends and configuration details.
```

> ### What's next?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### More information
```
